We extend a warm welcome to all of you!
This is the January 2020 edition
of JW Broadcasting®.
Excitement was in the air
as brothers and sisters
from around the world
poured into the Assembly Hall
in Newburgh, New York,
for the annual meeting on October 5, 2019.
Encouraging reports
and thrilling announcements
gave clear evidence of Jehovah’s blessing
on the preaching work.
Now you will hear it for yourself.
Please enjoy the first part
of the 2019 annual meeting.
I’ve chosen the theme
“Your Leader Is One, the Christ,”
based on Matthew 23:10.
Starting out with Nimrod of Babylon,
the world has seen many leaders
—religious leaders, political leaders.
When Hitler ruled Nazi Germany,
the Nazis created a slogan:
“One people, one empire, one leader.”
Well, what happened to that leader?
After causing the death of millions
during World War II,
he reportedly ended his life by suicide.
Human leaders have failed.
Why?
For one, most did not have
enough love for God and for the people.
They used their position
to acquire wealth, fame, power.
Others might have had
noble intentions but still failed.
Why?
Imperfect man does not have the ability
to rule, or lead, others perfectly.
In Bible times, Jehovah was the leader
of the ancient people of Israel.
He said, according to Leviticus 11:45:
“For I am Jehovah,
who is leading you
up out of the land of Egypt
to prove myself God to you.”
However, Jehovah appointed Moses
as a visible leader representing Him,
although he was imperfect.
Later, he appointed Joshua,
then the judges, then the kings.
However, the people
sometimes rejected their leadership.
Today, a leader exists
whose leadership is perfect
—Jesus Christ.
He was appointed by Jehovah.
We have a leader who is sinless
—different from any other human.
He’s perfect in wisdom and in righteousness.
He’s more powerful
than all human leaders together.
He’s also perfect in love.
He is a leader
that gave his life for the people.
Do we all appreciate his leadership?
Sure we do.
Jesus provided leadership by personal example
and at the same time
showed humility in dealing with others.
He showed love for his disciples
throughout the centuries until today,
strengthening them when persecuted.
He never abandoned them,
as he also indicated at Matthew 28:19, 20.
Do you want to follow his lead?
I trust you do.
In the first century,
at Pentecost 33 C.E.,
the Christian congregation was formed.
There was a governing body
of mature Christians, namely, the apostles,
who were responsible to take the lead.
When some of them were killed
or died of sickness or old age,
other anointed ones
were appointed to serve on that body.
Similarly today,
there’s no specific number
on the modern-day Governing Body.
In the first century, the governing body
was not only led by the spirit
but in matters of doctrine, even inspired.
Today, it’s not inspired
but still led by the spirit.
Today, our recognizing
Christ’s leadership involves
submission to and cooperation
with his spiritual brothers
and with other appointed overseers.
After Brother Russell,
Brother Rutherford
became the president of the Society,
or our human leader at that time.
Whereas at the beginning of his presidency
he strongly emphasized his position,
he changed his attitude later,
realizing he was not to be considered
the number one,
or the leader.
The book Jehovah’s Witnesses
—Proclaimers of God’s Kingdom
says on pages 220-221:
“At a convention
in St. Louis, Missouri, in 1941,
“shortly before his death,
“he spoke about the matter
of leadership, saying:
“‘I want to let any strangers here know
“‘what you think
about a man being your leader,
“‘so they won’t be forgetting.
“‘. . . If there is any person
in this audience
“‘who thinks that I,
this man standing here,
“is the leader of Jehovah’s witnesses,
say Yes.’
“The response was an impressive silence,
“broken only by an emphatic ‘No’
“from several in the audience.
“The speaker continued:
“‘If you who are here believe that I am
just one of the servants of the Lord,
“‘and we are working
shoulder to shoulder in unity,
“serving God and serving Christ,
say Yes.’
“[And] in unison the assembly
roared out a decisive ‘Yes!’”
From January 1942 to June 1977,
Brother Nathan Homer Knorr
served as president of the Society.
Gradually, by divine influence,
authority was shifted more and more
from the president to a Governing Body
as the meaning
of the term and the function
was understood increasingly better.
Today, Jesus is still the Leader,
providing leadership for the congregations.
He also directs
the worldwide preaching work from heaven.
However, he has delegated leadership
to “the faithful and discreet slave”
—the Governing Body—
through whom he provides
spiritual food at the proper time
in line with Matthew 24:45-47.
No member of the Governing Body
has the title “Leader,”
since Jesus said that none of his disciples
should be called Leader
—Matthew 23:10-12.
The term “governing body”
was used by us for the first time
in The Watchtower  of 1944,
November 1, page 328,
in the article
“Theocratic Organization in Action.”
But de facto in 1944,
there was no Governing Body
with collective decision-making
in operation yet.
A historic change came
on September 6, 1971.
It was resolved that the chairmanship
of the Governing Body
would rotate annually among its members,
doing so alphabetically.
On October 1, 1971,
Brother Frederick William Franz
became the chairman
of the Governing Body for one year,
according to the Proclaimers  book,
pages 106-107.
Starting in 1971,
the number of the members
of the Governing Body was raised.
Gradually, there were 18 members.
When the Governing Body was formed,
it was put in writing that all members
consider themselves as equal to the others;
none were more equal than the others.
Who was the number one among the 12 apostles?
Well, none of them.
Revelation 21:14 says
that in a figurative description
of the New Jerusalem
—Messianic Kingdom—
that there will be “12 apostles of the Lamb,”
and no apostle is shown in this text
as being superior to another.
The Governing Body also appoints
helpers to assist them;
this was instituted in 1992.
Each of the Governing Body
committees has helpers;
there are over 30 helpers now.
They participate at the meetings
of the Governing Body committee
to which they are assigned.
They do not share in decision-making
but are offering
observations and suggestions.
And also they carry out the decisions made
by the respective Governing Body committee.
The Governing Body also appoints
Branch Committees and Country Committees
in different parts of the world,
and they have oversight
over one or more countries.
Now, who is the number one
on the Branch Committee?
No one.
Christ is number one.
Branch Committees also have a chairman
who rotates each year alphabetically.
This is in place since 1976.
The chairman of the U.S. branch
starting this coming January
is Brother Lon Schilling.
Who is the leader
among congregation elders?
Although all of them are to take the lead,
none of them
is to be considered number one.
There is no rotation in place.
In a sense, we could say
that Jesus is number one, or the Leader.
He is the head of the congregation.
The coordinators
of the body of elders do not rotate,
but they are aware
that all elders are equals.
None are more equal than the others.
Well, is Christ’s leadership real to you?
We are not following a man.
Be determined to study more
about our Leader,
imitating him in our personal lives.
Jehovah will love you
if you follow his appointed Leader now,
and if you do,
you may get the privilege to follow him
forever after into all eternity.
We now have the privilege
to hear from Brother Stephen Lett
of the Governing Body.
He will address the subject
“Our Relief Ministry,
Used by Jehovah to Provide Relief.”
Jehovah is a wonderful God
of comfort and relief.
In stark contrast,
Satan the Devil is a horrible god
of pain and suffering.
In fact, if we think about it,
even with the so-called natural disasters
that cause a lot of pain and suffering,
Satan is the ultimate cause.
Why do we say that?
Well, by alienating humans from Jehovah,
Satan deprived them of the Creator
lovingly controlling
the weather for their benefit.
Additionally, humans under Satan’s rule
have grossly mismanaged the earth
and its environmental provisions,
resulting in erratic weather swings
which undoubtedly contribute
to these so-called natural disasters.
But how thankful, as we said,
that Jehovah is a God of comfort and relief!
And one way he lives up to this title
is by empowering and motivating us
to share in a relief ministry
in behalf of our brothers
who have been pummeled
by some catastrophe.
And when we allow Jehovah
to use us in this way,
we’re actually imitating
our first-century brothers and sisters.
Please go to Acts 11:29.
The setting is about the year 46 C.E.,
and our brothers in Judea
are suffering from a terrible famine.
Being unable to pay
the sky-high prices for food,
they’re very hungry;
they’re even facing starvation.
So, what did their brothers in Antioch,
their Jewish and Gentile brothers,
do for these brothers in Judea?
Well, let’s read beginning in verse 29:
“So the disciples determined,
“each according to what he could afford,
“to send relief
to the brothers living in Judea;
“and this they did,
sending it to the elders
by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.”
Now, you can just imagine how appreciative
those brothers
facing starvation in Judea were
to receive this aid
from their brothers in Antioch!
And you can just imagine
how appreciative Jehovah was
for what the ones in Antioch did
for their very needy brothers!
And this Bible account is just one of several
about our brothers in one area
performing a relief ministry
in behalf of others
living elsewhere who are very needy.
Now we ask this,
How specifically does Jehovah provide
comfort and relief
by means of our relief ministry?
Well, here are three ways.
One, physical relief is given.
Our brother’s immediate needs
regarding food, clothing, shelter,
medicine, first-aid supplies are provided.
Two, emotional relief is given.
Assurance is given that they’re not alone.
Jehovah is with them,
and their brothers are with them
in this time of distress.
But most important,
spiritual relief is given.
We make sure that our brothers
have what they need
to resume immediately
their spiritual routine of serving Jehovah.
But now, in order to continue
their spiritual routine long-term,
their lives and their circumstances
have to be stabilized.
This often requires either repairing
or rebuilding their Kingdom Halls
and repairing or even in many cases
rebuilding their homes,
and then they can continue
in their spiritual routine.
In fact, enjoy, please, this video
showing how our brothers in Indonesia
were helped to resume quickly
their spiritual routine
after the devastating earthquake
and tsunami of 2018.
Four days after the earthquake,
evacuation of 132 people began.
It was important
to take care of the spiritual needs
of the brothers and sisters
and, amazingly,
not a single meeting was missed.
Several of us from the branch office
gave encouraging talks
to the publishers there.
Meetings for field service were also held,
and the publishers there went out preaching
just a couple of days after they had arrived.
We had the opportunity
to go out preaching in Poso.
Many people were interested in discussing
the events that took place in Palu.
They listened to the Bible’s message
and asked to be visited again.
After meeting for field service
at the Poso Kingdom Hall,
we had the opportunity
to play sign-language videos
from jw.org® to several deaf ones.
Even though we were struck
by a natural disaster,
we were still able to carry out
spiritual routines.
I’m very grateful to Jehovah,
the brothers from the branch office,
and others whose prayers,
examples, and presence really helped us
to endure and to keep on relying
on Jehovah no matter what.
By means of our relief ministry,
we prove we’re imitators
of the God of comfort and relief
and we also prove
that we’re obeying the command
at Ephesians 5:1, 2, which says:
“Become imitators of God,
as beloved children,
and go on walking in love.”
Now, if you think about it,
we’re really created to imitate Jehovah.
We’re made in his image, aren’t we?
In contrast,
animals cannot imitate Jehovah,
the God of unselfish love
and comfort and relief.
For example,
you can’t imagine a dog thinking to himself:
‘You know, I really feel bad about taking
that bone away from the other dog.
In the future, I’m really going
to try to be more unselfish.’
You can’t imagine a horse
looking up at a beautiful sunset:
‘My, that sunset
makes me love my Creator more.
I’m going to try
to please him more in the future.’
You can’t imagine an eagle praying,
‘Lord, thank you very much
for the fish I’m about to eat.’
No, animals are not made in God’s image
—we are.
We can imitate our wonderful God
of comfort and relief and love.
Now here’s a question:
How does our relief ministry glorify Jehovah?
Well, here are three ways we’ll discuss.
Number one:
It proves that we are true Christians,
and that reflects well on our God.
Secondly, it unites us
as brothers and sisters;
it unites us in love and prayer.
As soon as we hear about a disaster
affecting our brothers, what do we do?
We start praying for them, don’t we?
And then as we start giving them relief,
they start praying for us
and they start working in harmony with us
—that’s the second way
we’re united in activity.
We spring into action to help our brothers,
and they do what they can
to support our efforts in their behalf.
In fact, please enjoy this video.
Relief workers from the United States,
Indonesia, and Africa
spring into action to help their brothers.
We are so happy
to be able to come
and help rebuild the damaged houses
so that the brothers
feel secure living in them.
We see this as evidence
that we have
brotherly love toward one another.
It’s been a faith-strengthening event,
not just for the families
affected directly by the fire,
but for all of us helping out.
We’ve had the privilege to watch Jehovah
do so much for his people
—physically, emotionally,
spiritually, mentally.
It’s very faith-strengthening to know
that Jehovah never abandons us.
Right after the cyclone hit here in Beira,
we were privileged to be able to come
up here and help out.
It felt really good to be there
to be able to help the brothers
to face an extremely difficult situation.
I learned a lot during this time.
Always, always, always
follow Jehovah’s direction.
This is good for us.
We’re actually putting a roof
back on the Kingdom Hall.
It was completely destroyed during the storm.
And the idea
is that the Memorial is next week;
they’re going to be able to come
back to their Kingdom Hall,
which will be fixed up,
and celebrate the Memorial.
So we’re happy to be a part of that.
Additionally,
we’re united in giving contributions.
We give generously
as cheerful givers.
And those who have been helped,
what do they do?
Subsequently, they, in turn,
help others who are afflicted
with their contributions.
In fact, here are some statistics
about the great magnitude
of our relief ministry
just during the past two service years.
Now, during these two service years alone,
more than 900,000 of our brothers
have been affected
—almost a million.
Sixty-two thousand of them
were displaced;
190 were injured;
sadly, 64 were killed;
more than 700 Kingdom Halls
were damaged or destroyed;
more than 15,000 homes
were damaged or destroyed.
The organization
spent $49.5 million (U.S.)
on relief efforts
just during these two service years.
I mean, that’s almost $50 million
in just two service years.
Obviously, our relief ministry
has taken on gigantic proportions.
To help you appreciate
how your donations are being used,
please enjoy this video
showing before and after pictures
of homes of our brothers
after Cyclone Idai struck in Africa.
Just for your information,
those homes that were rebuilt
that you saw there,
some were rebuilt and some were repaired.
The cost to repair
ranged from $50 to $900 per home.
The cost to rebuild
was from $900 to $3,500
for each home.
Now, as you saw,
the rebuilt homes are not extravagant,
but the brothers often ended up
with something a lot better
than what they had before
because of the use
of improved building materials.
And undoubtedly, this will help them
better weather future storms.
But at this point,
we’d like to just take a moment
and thank you dear brothers
and commend you
for your generous, generous contributions
that make our relief ministry possible.
You can be sure that Jehovah is well-pleased.
In fact, at Hebrews 13:16,
we’re told:
“Moreover, do not forget to do good
“and to share what you have with others,
for God is well-pleased
with such sacrifices.”
And I love that thought.
He’s not just pleased;
he’s “well-pleased” with your generosity.
So thank you very much,
and the Governing Body thanks you
from the bottom of our hearts.
Our brothers and sisters
who have been helped
thank you from the bottom of their hearts.
In fact, enjoy this video,
and you’re going to see some of the brothers
in the United States and Africa
expressing their appreciation.
Jehovah has really helped us out
in this disaster by using
the brotherhood
to strengthen and encourage us
in ways we’ve never seen before.
And it’s really drawn us closer to him.
Jehovah, through his organization,
gave me two wonderful people
who were there
to take care of my needs and my wants.
Everything I needed
was handled through them
—just having someone that you can talk to;
just having people that care.
I’ve been in the truth almost 50 years,
and I’ve always had friends,
and it’s always been loving and good,
but I have never felt as loved by Jehovah.
The Service Department called
and warned that a big storm
would arrive on Thursday.
We saw the true love
that the branch office had for us,
and we followed their example.
We risked our lives to inform the brothers
to come to the Kingdom Hall.
The brothers from the branch
were constantly in contact with us.
I found that really encouraging.
Until very late in the evening,
they were sending us messages,
telling us that they
were still up praying for us.
Those messages were a great comfort to us.
The organization
has been helping us so much emotionally.
The branch sent representatives
to provide shepherding
and also a variety of food
—good, nutritious food.
All of this has really been impressive.
And we want to thank Jehovah
for the way he’s been caring for us.
What Jehovah’s organization
is doing right now
is far superior than anything
the human governments have been doing.
We really want to say, “Thank you.”
We really feel Jehovah’s love.
Seeing that video motivates us even more
to want to help our brothers
by means of our donations
and also by means of our labor.
Now, speaking of labor,
we’re happy to inform you
that later in our program,
Brother Lösch will tell you
about a new provision
for applying to help with relief work
and other needs in the organization.
So stay tuned
for the revealing of that information.
But now one more way, a third way,
our relief ministry gives a good witness
and glorifies Jehovah
is that it gives a good witness to onlookers,
and that glorifies Jehovah.
Neighbors, family members,
government officials
see our love in action.
As a result,
some actually come into the truth.
Please enjoy this video.
An unbelieving husband comes into the truth
as a result of our relief ministry.
I always loved my family.
I wanted the best for them.
So I worked to provide for them.
That’s my duty.
My wife got baptized two years before me.
I built our home right here.
Then one day, our lives changed forever.
This is my house,
so I have to start again.
Two brothers came to see me.
They said: “Don’t worry about a thing.
“Everything will be all right.
The brothers will take care of it.”
I thought, ‘Hmm, I don’t know
if he knows what he’s talking about.’
When the brothers
started showing up at my place to help,
I was thinking: ‘Why would they help me?
They don’t know me.’
Every morning I watched the brothers.
When they finished praying,
everyone grabbed their tools and got to work.
I told my wife that this was unbelievable.
When I saw an elderly sister
carrying concrete blocks
(they were so heavy for her),
I ran inside with tears in my eyes.
I didn’t want anyone to see me cry.
I thought,
‘Something is wrong with them for sure,
or something is wrong with me.’
I began to appreciate
what they did and how they acted.
A lot of love
—that is the only way I can put it—
a lot of love.
They even shared their food with me.
They made it clear that this work
was a sign of Jehovah’s love.
And all those things touched my heart.
They let me know that, man,
this organization is for real,
and it’s the truth.
I wanted to be part of that.
I decided to give my life to Jehovah
because he showed me how much
he loves both me and my family.
Now I take care of my family
better than ever before.
So in review,
our relief ministry
is a loving expression
from the God of comfort
and relief whom we serve.
By means of it,
Jehovah uses us to provide
physical, emotional,
and spiritual relief to our brothers.
And it glorifies Jehovah
(1) by identifying us as true Christians,
(2) by uniting us as brothers and sisters
in love, prayer, action,
and giving contributions,
and it glorifies Jehovah
(3) by attracting
honesthearted ones to the truth.
How happy we are
that soon Jehovah
will provide permanent relief!
There will be no more disasters.
But until that grand time,
we will continue to exert ourselves
in our relief ministry
in behalf of our brothers.
Doing so will help us
to remain focused on spiritual things,
it will unite us as brothers and sisters,
it will give a unique witness to onlookers,
and it will help prepare us
for the great tribulation
and the great reconstruction to follow.
Thank you, Brother Lett.
It’s a relief to know
that the brotherhood provides relief
in times of disaster, isn’t it?
We now have a video we invite you to enjoy.
It is entitled
‘The Good Hand of Our God Is Upon Us . . .
Let Us Get Up and Build.’
Jehovah’s organization now cares
for almost 80,000 buildings worldwide,
with a total area
of more than 215 million square feet,
or 20 million square meters.
That is the area
of about 2,800 soccer fields,
or six times the area
of Central Park in Manhattan.
The scores of branch office buildings,
hundreds of Assembly Halls,
and tens of thousands
of Kingdom Halls around the world
provide tangible proof
that God’s Kingdom is ruling.
Why can we say that?
As Psalm 127:1 reminds us,
none of this would be possible
without Jehovah’s blessing.
Like Nehemiah and the Jews
who rebuilt Jerusalem’s walls,
we are confident
that ‘the good hand
of our God is upon us.’
These buildings
have been dedicated to Jehovah.
So it is a privilege for us to make sure
that they continue to measure up
to the purpose for which they were built.
Our branch facilities
are especially well-maintained.
Some of these properties are relatively new,
but many others are 30 or more years old.
A building itself may last
30, 60, or even 100 years,
but building systems
may reach the end of their life
after only 15 or 20 years.
So many of our facilities are in need
of major renovation or replacement.
Activities at Bethel are also changing.
So interior layouts
sometimes need to be updated.
All of this presents a challenge:
How do we take care of our Bethel facilities
and still keep up
with the work on our Kingdom Halls?
Indeed, what is the need?
How can we address it?
And how can you help?
Join us now
on an encouraging trip around the world.
We want to show you what’s being done
and planned for our branch facilities.
Fasten your seat belts, please.
This report will be moving quickly.
Our brains are not good
at noticing gradual change.
For this reason, the organization
began a program a few years ago
to evaluate the current and future needs
of our properties every two to three years.
And based on this assessment,
a decision can be made for each property
on whether or not to renovate
and what that should involve.
At times, it makes more sense
to renovate or redevelop
what we already have.
Major renovations have already started
in branches that need it the most.
The Governing Body would like to see
more of the Bethelites
care for their own personal services.
The offices always used to be
individual, for one person.
Now it’s better if the offices
are open and use dividers
because these
can be easily changed and modified
according to the necessity of the work.
Well, Patterson is
a beautiful and practical complex.
I don’t think anyone envisioned
when the complex was built
that we would have over a thousand
of our brothers and sisters
visiting Bethel every day.
But having a visitor’s center
is going to give them
an improved tour experience
here at Patterson
and at the same time make sure
that departments are able to do their work.
In 2013, the Governing Body decided
to merge the Finland branch
with several other branches.
Additionally, the oldest parts
of the facility were almost 60 years old.
We had been printing literature
in Finland for 83 years.
But now, under the guidance
of the Governing Body,
it was decided
that we will stop printing in Finland
and use the space of the old printery
for new offices and other purposes.
We were a little concerned
where we would find
all the needed volunteers.
When we told about our needs
to local congregations,
the applications started to flow in.
We realized that here we have
fine young brothers and sisters.
It has been touching, really touching,
to see their willing spirit.
Sometimes, it’s not practical
to renovate a property,
so we would purchase
or build new buildings
and then sell the old ones.
This was recently decided, for example,
in Argentina, Cameroon, and India.
Our Bethel family decreased
from around 350 to 150.
The multiple buildings
were spread across several properties,
and with the reduction,
many of them were no longer being used.
It was decided
that our Bethel facilities be sold
and to begin a search
for a new Bethel facility.
The timing had to be precise
between the purchase
and construction of a new facility
and the sale of all current properties.
We saw Jehovah’s direction clearly.
On the one hand,
we had the sale of all the properties,
and on the other hand,
the purchase of the new project.
Both processes climaxed
within the same 24-hour period.
The Kingdom preaching work
has sped up in our branch territory.
We’ve experienced a 4 percent increase
in Cameroon
like we’ve never experienced before.
We’re now translating
into 29 different languages.
We did consider renovating
our present location,
but how do you continue the work
in a tiny branch while a renovation
is happening around you?
We had a piece of land
right next to one of our major Assembly Halls
in one of the biggest cities
in our branch territory.
But sadly,
the access was terrible
—a dirty, muddy road,
very difficult to access either in a car
or on foot.
All of a sudden something amazing happened.
The local government decided to build
a road right outside our Assembly Hall,
thus giving us access to this piece of land.
It was Jehovah saying,
‘This is the piece of land where you
should build the new Cameroon branch.’
Our facility was
now oversized for our real needs.
The Governing Body directed
that we sell this property
and relocate the branch
to a more economical facility.
We realized that we
were millions of dollars short
of the needed funds.
We needed a buyer who would agree to buy
the facility at the right price,
give us enough money in advance
to pay for the new branch,
and allow us
to keep using the existing branch
till the new one was ready.
We felt very helpless.
Just a few days before we were scheduled
to sign up for the new branch,
a buyer, who had shown interest
but had not yet committed to anything,
signed a binding agreement
and met all our conditions.
He also provided a large amount
of a nonrefundable deposit
to help us to purchase the new branch.
Nothing is impossible for Jehovah.
He timed everything perfectly.
Many more projects like these
are in the planning stages.
We want all of our properties
to keep meeting the organization’s needs
and reflecting well on Jehovah.
Besides renovations,
many of our branch facilities
are again being used to capacity.
The number of publishers,
commuters, remote volunteers,
and Bethelites
has increased worldwide.
Some countries have seen
an increase of 5, 7, or more percent
in the number of publishers each year.
More work is also being done worldwide
in translation,
video production,
digital publishing,
and other important areas.
The organization pursues every avenue
to make our Bethel operations more efficient.
But we will always need people
to do much of the work.
Therefore,
planning has already begun to see
where additional expansion might be needed.
We have many world headquarters departments
involved in the planning process
to give input.
Also, the Branch Committee
is involved in this.
Before any facility is recommended
for expansion, questions are asked.
For example, is this expansion
going to directly advance
the preaching and teaching activity
in the country?
Could it be
that with some operational changes,
the function of the branch
could be discontinued in some way
or outsourced or simplified in some way
to mean that we wouldn’t need to expand?
With recent changes in Bethel operations,
it is possible for us
now to buy standard apartments
and offices for a Bethel facility.
If we need more offices and apartments,
we buy them from the market.
And as these options are investigated,
we look for Jehovah’s hand in this.
What is the evidence that his spirit
is behind one of these options?
The Governing Body has asked all of us
“to give priority to those activities
“that contribute the most
to the spiritual welfare of God’s people
and the advancement
of the global preaching work.”
This principle helps us
to prioritize our efforts worldwide.
There is definitely a lot to do.
But it is really exciting to see
the good hand of Jehovah
on his people today.
The brothers and sisters everywhere
are zealously supporting
this work with their time,
financial resources, and prayers.
We are confident
that Jehovah God will continue to bless
the collective efforts to provide
the facilities the organization needs.
And the skills we are learning
not only benefit us now
but into the future
—right into God’s new world.
Thank you, brothers,
for bringing us up-to-date
on what is happening
with our Bethel facilities around the world.
When Nehemiah prepared
to rebuild Jerusalem’s walls,
he took a prayerful and practical approach.
Jehovah blessed that approach
because Nehemiah acted in faith
and relied fully on Jehovah.
When the people saw
that Jehovah’s good hand was on Nehemiah,
they said:
“Let us get up and build.”
Well, the Governing Body today
makes facility decisions
in a similar way.
They prayerfully analyze what is needed.
They make sure we have
the necessary resources to finish the work.
And then they present to God’s people
what they have in mind to do
and ask for their support.
So, what is left for us to say?
Thank you for your loyal support
in the days ahead
of all these important initiatives.
Jehovah will bless you too
for your willing and generous spirit.
And now,
it’s time for us too
to get up and build.
Maintenance, renovation,
and new construction are ongoing projects.
But how does the Governing Body decide
when and where to build new facilities?
We searched our archived video files
and found some comments from some brothers
who were involved
in property acquisition in years past.
These comments predate
the more recent decision
to move world headquarters
out of Brooklyn, New York.
Please enjoy
this faith-strengthening video entitled
A Historic Look at Property Acquisitions.
Well, originally the reason
we bought the Watchtower Farm
was that the family
was growing here in Brooklyn,
and Mountain Farm was limited
because it was
only 100 and some acres (40 ha).
So Brother Knorr
approved of us buying a piece of land.
The brother there said
to both George and Max,
“Well, you know,
“we just had a family business meeting
“just a few days ago,
and we want to sell our property, our farm.”
And the interesting thing
is that Brother Knorr said:
“This is only going to be for a farm.
“Don’t get any ideas of anything else.
It’s for a farm.”
Well, back in 1960
when we bought that much land,
we had no idea of a printery.
But what did the Lord have in mind for it?
He had in mind to put the printery there.
We were zealously going after a farm,
but we didn’t need string beans and potatoes.
We needed books and Bibles printed up there.
And so we see the good results of it today.
What a difference!
Who could ever think
that Watchtower Farms could turn into being
the United States branch
of Jehovah’s Witnesses?
That to me is a wonderful example
of Jehovah leading the organization.
So we started in 1980
looking for suitable property
out of the city for expansion.
One time, we looked
at a piece of property over in Jersey.
It was an old school,
but the buildings were so bad
that we would’ve never gotten them fixed up.
And so we told the real estate man,
“No, we really don’t want it
—no use in looking anymore.”
Well, he got a little upset,
and he said,
“Well, what do you want?”
And I said,
“What we really want
“is something up near Suffern or Brewster,
“about five or six hundred acres
(200-240 ha) of land
“where there are roads and hills
and scenery and water and all that,”
thinking he’d never find it
because we’d looked all over the country.
Well, the next day, about 11 o’clock,
he called me on the phone.
He said, “I found your property.”
I took it up with the Governing Body,
and we looked at the property,
and they loved it.
We told the town
that we wanted four or five hundred people.
Well, before we got
our final permit to build,
we had it up to 1,500,
and we’re looking to adjust here and there
to accommodate what we need there now.
How these projects have met
the organization’s need is amazing
—and at the proper time—
every one of these, no matter what!
Today, we have millions in the truth.
And the Bible tells us
that we’re going to grow and fill the earth.
How many millions of people
we’ll have in the truth
when Armageddon comes, we don’t know.
We don’t know when Armageddon is coming.
We’re not going backward;
we’re going to continue to go ahead
doing things more efficiently.
It means you’re going to have to expand;
you’re going to have to build.
So you have to always be looking ahead.
Right to the end,
we’re going to be giving out
spiritual food at the right time.
We don’t know what the Lord is going to use
after the great tribulation, immediately.
As Brother Couch said
(and Brother Larson felt the same way):
“The Lord is running the organization,
“so we’ve got to follow him.
And whatever he tells us, we do it.”
It’s so interesting
to see Jehovah’s direction
in locating useful properties,
and that brings us to a related subject.
The title of the next video is
A New Construction Project Is Being Planned.
Please watch and enjoy
the following presentation.
We live in a time when technology
has allowed us to communicate
the truth of God’s Word
in new and exciting ways.
Our modern world
has seen advancements in printing,
radio, television, computers and,
of course, the Internet.
You likely can remember
a time just a few short years ago
when we released only a handful
of videos every year.
But these now number into the hundreds,
with videos created for use in the ministry,
midweek meetings,
JW Broadcasting® programs,
regional conventions,
and we can’t forget
the Become Jehovah’s Friend  series.
Jehovah’s organization
has made use of videos over the years,
over the decades.
But from 2014 forward,
we have seen a dramatic increase in the use
of videos, and that has really
impacted how we teach
and how we reach hearts.
Because of the demand for more videos,
more space was needed.
So we purchased the Mt. Ebo property,
and there we have been making
many of our large video productions.
Well, the response
from the brothers and sisters
in the field has been outstanding;
it’s been amazing!
It’s actually been very encouraging
for the Teaching Committee
and the Governing Body to see how
the brothers and sisters appreciate
the videos, the music,
and the recordings that are produced.
It’s helping them to really understand
the teaching points in God’s Word.
It helps them to deal
with the anxieties and pressures of life.
It really helps them to appreciate too
what’s happening around the world
when they hear reports,
dramatizations, and interviews.
With this explosive growth
and even more coming on the horizon,
the Governing Body has determined
it’s Jehovah’s direction
that we take further steps
to support this expanded use of video.
So we are thrilled to announce
an exciting initiative
currently underway to accomplish this:
The creation of a site dedicated primarily
to media production.
The building of a new facility
in Ramapo, New York.
Yes, the Governing Body
has approved construction
of an additional world headquarters complex
on a 248-acre property purchased in 2009.
The property is located two miles,
or about three kilometers,
from the existing world headquarters
facility in Warwick.
Our objective is to build a facility
similar in size to Warwick,
which would include ten residence buildings,
a main office building, eight studio spaces
for audio/video productions,
a multipurpose space
—including kitchen, dining, and meeting area—
plus, a visitors’ center.
This will culminate in a location capable
of housing over 1,000 volunteers,
with 920 office spaces, and will accommodate
Audio/Video Services,
Text Processing,
Writing Correspondence,
and the Art Department.
Planning and engineering
are already underway.
We are beginning our discussions
with the local authorities on this project.
And, Jehovah willing,
we hope to start site work in 2022
and have a completed facility
by December 31, 2026.
One year ago this week in October,
the Teaching Committee was discussing
all that has been asked
of Audio/Video Services
—all the videos that they’re producing.
And we could see that it was
a little bit difficult because this
department was spread out
over four different complexes,
10 different buildings,
and 16 different floors.
So working together and collaborating
has been a little difficult
by being spread out.
If you go back some years,
it was planned
to increase the Bethel facility,
expand the Bethel facility,
at Patterson, New York.
Yet, at that time, there were
two large construction projects underway
at Wallkill and Warwick.
So another construction project
was just not feasible at that time.
But Audio/Video Services still had needs
—immediate needs.
So at that time the Governing Body
approved to purchase the building
at Mt. Ebo as a temporary solution.
The use of video
in our teaching programs was exploding,
and so there was a need
for much more studio space
and the associated spaces
to support video production.
After searching
the area of Patterson for additional space,
this property at Mt. Ebo rose to the top.
It was a smooth transaction,
and we were renovating
and using this space very quickly,
which all of us have benefited from since.
And the intent was that AVS
would use it for ten years or so,
and then when a more permanent
facility became available,
Mt. Ebo would be sold
to recoup the original purchase price.
So Ramapo
will become that more
permanent studio location.
When any functional department is split up
over multiple locations,
it can involve a degree of inefficiency
and it can also involve
a doubling up of tasks,
which creates a complex framework
for anyone to operate in.
So having all Audio/Video Services
operating out of one facility
will surely mean a much
more collaborative environment
for those brothers and sisters to work in.
And the end result, obviously,
won’t affect the preaching work that we do
or the teaching that we get in our meetings,
at the assemblies, and conventions.
To be able to consolidate the operations,
a design was put together
and costing was put to the design.
That was presented to the Governing Body,
and they gave us the OK to go ahead
and then meet again
with the town of Ramapo
—which, now a decade later,
was an entirely new group of officials—
to meet with them to see if we’d
still get the same positive reception.
And we had an excellent reception from them.
They seemed to welcome us with open arms.
Obviously, we’re going to have
to meet their code and criteria,
but they seem as though they want to have us
develop that site as an audio/video facility.
Over the period of time
that we held the property,
we tried to sell it at different times.
But despite our best efforts
and a variety
of different marketing exercises,
there was very little interest expressed
in the property at the time.
And so when we began
thinking about expansion again,
it was logical to look
to a property we already owned.
For almost a year now, we’ve been working
with preconstruction activities.
And, of course, that means
thousands and thousands of hours
in project planning and project design
to be able to meet the requirements
of the town and the state
to be able to obtain
a building permit for the project.
And, of course,
once that building permit is obtained
and we’ve actually put shovel to the ground,
then we would expect
that we’d have four years or less
to actually deliver the project.
In recent projects
that the Governing Body has directed,
such as the Britain branch,
adaptability was foremost
in the design of the offices.
So, therefore, office space
could be reconfigured
as the needs of departments
and functions at the branch changed.
On the Britain project, some of the exciting
new design features were, for example—
There was no central laundry.
So each room has laundry facilities in it
so that the occupant
can do their own laundry.
The multipurpose building
on that site is a building
that can be easily configured
for various different functions.
Creating a building
that is modular allows the brothers,
as the needs evolve,
to modify the building with the smallest
amount of renovation cost possible.
These new design features
are very flexible in their nature,
and that’s very helpful
because our dynamic organization
is moving quickly,
and change is coming fast as well.
That allows us to move with it.
We can reconfigure spaces
without any major expense
and keep up with those changes
that are being made.
The Ramapo audio/video studios
will be the largest in our organization.
There have been other audio/video studios
constructed around the world,
and lessons learned
from these are already being brought forward
to the Ramapo AV studio.
But that means we need you.
We need your prayers,
your support, your strong backs
because this project
will call for thousands of volunteers,
with as many as 1,500 volunteers a day
during the peak of construction.
But we have utmost confidence
at Psalm 110:3, where it says:
“Your people will offer themselves willingly
on the day of your military force.”
So do not hold back.
Do whatever you can
to support this exciting new initiative.
We will need thousands upon thousands
of willing volunteers
who are available for one week
to one month or six months,
whatever the case may be,
to help with this project.
On recent large-scale projects,
we found it very successful
to hire contractors for the specialized
and for the heavily mechanized
parts of the work,
such as the steel superstructures
or the concrete
superstructures of the buildings,
the building envelopes,
cladding, or roofing,
and then to get volunteers
to carry out the all-important hidden work,
where the detail really makes the difference
—for example, the underground
utilities for the site works,
the mechanical and electrical
fit out of the buildings,
as well as the all-important finishes.
We want to work with the LDC
to identify brothers and sisters
that can help and be trained now.
They could either be assigned
to local projects with the LDC
or some of them could be invited
to start helping on renovation projects
like the one at Patterson.
And this will allow us
to start giving them valuable training now
that will be useful on the Ramapo project.
We’re hoping that on the Ramapo project,
Jehovah’s spirit will energize
the brotherhood again
as it did at Warwick
and also on the Britain project.
Really, from the initial concept design
to the estimating and establishing budgets
and reviewing the personnel needs all the way
to the first initial meetings with the town,
prayerful consideration was given
by all the brothers and sisters involved.
And so we could really see
in every one of those decisions
that Jehovah was steering this project,
and he knows already
how it will be completed.
Going back more than a decade ago
from between 2005 to 2009
when we were searching for property,
these two properties became available,
and they both seemed
as though they were suitable.
And it was the organization’s decision
to go with one and not develop the other.
Now when it seems like there is a real need,
we can develop the second property that
we already have (that we already own)
and that we already
have a good reception with.
To me, those things
are faith-strengthening because what I see
is that the work we were doing a decade ago
and that the brothers and sisters
were involved
with (and the Branch Committee)—
We didn’t know what the outcome might be.
And we didn’t know what the use
might be over this last decade.
But now what we have is something
that can be very suitable as we move forward,
and to me that’s faith-strengthening.
I see Jehovah’s hand in that.
Projects like this,
in addition to serving a very practical need,
offer an opportunity for Jehovah’s people
to show their thankfulness
and their zeal for him.
And as we experienced with Warwick,
just the project alone and the participation
of our brothers and sisters
from all over the country
resulted in a spiritual blessing
to thousands of individuals,
their families, and their congregations.
And we fully expect this project
will have the same positive effect.
On a project of this scale,
the early strategic decisions
are absolutely crucial.
Now with what we’ve seen;
with the design
and project-planning teams coming together;
with the plans for the support, feeding,
housing, and care of the volunteers;
with the spirit that’s already evident
among those who are involved in the project;
and also the strong backing
of the Governing Body,
we clearly see
that Jehovah’s hand is with us.
James 4:8 states:
“Draw close to God,
and he will draw close to you.”
Yes, Jehovah is allowing ones
every opportunity to draw close to him
as never before.
And he is speaking to them
through his inspired Word
as well as vivid artwork, beautiful music,
and heart-touching videos.
And it’s the feeling
of the entire Governing Body
that this new site will allow us
to produce even more wonderful products
to help us to do just that.
It’s good to note your enthusiasm.
How encouraging to hear that information!
This was the first part.
In Parts 2 and 3 of the annual meeting,
you’ll hear six talks
by Governing Body members
that refine our understanding of Bible truths
and strengthen our trust in Jehovah.
Make sure to watch them when they appear
in the Video On Demand section
of JW Broadcasting
in the next few weeks.
To conclude this month’s program,
let’s travel to Papua New Guinea.
It is located
in the southwestern Pacific Ocean.
Papua New Guinea covers
the eastern half of the island
of New Guinea and includes
other islands and atolls.
There are three official languages
in Papua New Guinea:
English, Hiri Motu,
and the most widely used official language
—Tok Pisin.
Besides these 3 official languages,
it is estimated that there are
over 800 other languages spoken here.
Many of these have fewer than 1,000 people.
This presents
a huge challenge in the ministry.
Our brothers use preaching carts
in high-traffic areas
to catch the attention of those passing by,
and they use the videos
available in the local language
to teach the good news.
In the Kwaivagolo Congregation,
they walk up to five hours
just to reach their scattered territory.
Their determination in the preaching work
is producing good fruit.
The 34 publishers
are conducting an average
of 38 Bible studies.
They hold their congregation meetings
in Hiri Motu,
and their preaching is done primarily
in the local language of Tubulamo.
When building the Kingdom Hall,
these brothers did all
of the excavation manually,
since machines were not available.
Then they carried
all of the building supplies
up the mountain by hand
—a trip that takes two to three hours.
Our brothers send you
their warm love and greetings,
and we send ours in return.
May Jehovah bless their love
and their zeal for his name.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.